https://www.crackias.com/download-question-paper-general-studies-paper-1-upsc-civil-services-preliminary-examination-2018.php
Logo
 
BlueStacks Support  BlueStacks 4  Popular Articles

Type your question here
Articles in this section
Introducing Instance Manager on BlueStacks 4
MOBA mode on BlueStacks 4
How to create new keyboard controls for a game on BlueStacks 4
How to view or edit existing keyboard controls in BlueStacks 4
Game control guidance on BlueStacks 4
How can I customize BlueStacks 4 Settings?
How to use backup and restore on BlueStacks?
How can I configure my antivirus software to improve BlueStacks performance?
How do I disable Hyper-V on Windows?
How can I enable virtualization (VT) on my PC?
How can I enable virtualization (VT) on my PC?
NOTE: This article outlines technical steps you can follow for enabling virtualization in your PC's BIOS and improving performance

Virtualization technology permits BlueStacks 3 to run smoother and much faster.

1. How can I find out if my PC supports virtualization?

Download and run a free utility provided by your PC's CPU manufacturer.

a) If your processor is made by Intel, the Intel Processor Identification Utility detects whether your PC supports virtualization (VT-x technology), See b) for AMD processors (AMD-V technology)

Download Intel's virtualization technology detection tool from this link.
Select the language-specific msi download.
11.png

Once the utility is installed on your PC, you can run it to identify the status of processor as shown below.

22.png

If the report associates a "Yes" with Intel's virtualization technology, then it is available for your PC.

b) To check the status of AMD-V, AMD users can download AMD V detection Utility

33.JPG

2. How can I enable virtualization, if available but disabled on my PC?

2.1) Access your PC BIOS for Windows 10, 8.1, 8 (UEFI-compliant BIOS)

2.1.1) Windows 10 

1.) Click Start flag button menu and select Settings.

2.) Select Update and Security. 

windows-10-settings.png

3.) Click Recovery on the left hand menu.

4.) Under Advanced start-up, click Restart Now.

windows10-recovery.png

5) Select Troubleshoot

Windows10_Troubleshoot.png

6) Select Advanced Options

Windows10_AdvStartup.png

7) Select UEFI Firmware Settings.

8) Click Restart to restart the system and enter UEFI (BIOS).

2.1.2) Windows 8.1, 8  (UEFI-compliant BIOS)

1) Navigate to the Style UI Charms Bar
    Shortcut: Windows Key  + "C"
    Touchscreen: Swipe finger from the right edge of the screen towards the center
    Mouse: Starting from the top right-hand corner move the mouse along the right edge of the screen

    Click/Touch "Settings"

Win_8.1.1.jpg


2. Click / Tab on "Change PC Settings" on the lower right-hand site

Shortcut: Windows Key  + "I"

Win_8.1.2.jpg

3) Select "General" on the left-hand pane

    Select "Restart Now" under the "Advanced Startup" section on the right pane.

    The system will reboot into the Advanced Boot Menu

Win_8.1.3.jpg

4) Select Troubleshoot

Win_8.1.4.jpg

5) Select Advanced Options

Win_8.1.5.jpg

6) Select "UEFI Firmware Settings" and select "Restart" on the following prompt.

    Windows will now initiate the BIOS. 

Win_8.1.6.jpg

2.2) Enter the PC BIOS

Power ON or restart your PC

NOTE: Many of the steps below may vary depending upon your motherboard, processor type, chip-set, and OEM. Refer to your the documentation accompanying your PC for the appropriate steps to enter the BIOS.

HP - Illustrated example

While your PC is restarting repeatedly tap Esc key to enter BIOS
Press the F10 key for BIOS Setup.(Follow the instruction on the screen)
Press the right arrow key to System Configuration tab, Select Virtualization Technology and then press the Enter key. 
virt_bios.gif

Select Enabled and press the Enter key.
Press the F10 key and select Yes and press the Enter key to save changes and Reboot.
Please follow the appropriate link to enable 'Virtualization Technology' in specified systems,

 

Lenovo

Dell

Press F2 key at startup BIOS Setup.
Press the right arrow key to the Advanced tab, Select Virtualization and then press the Enter key.
Select Enabled and press the Enter key.
Press the F10 key and select Yes and press the Enter key to save changes and Reboot into Windows.
Asus

Press F2 key at startup BIOS Setup.
Press the right arrow key to the Advanced tab, Select Virtualization Technology and then press the Enter key.
Select Enabled and press the Enter key.
Press the F10 key and select Yes and press the Enter key to save changes and Reboot into Windows.
Acer

Press F2 key at startup BIOS Setup.
Press the right arrow key to System Configuration tab, Select Virtualization Technology and then press the Enter key.
Select Enabled and press the Enter key.
Press the F10 key and select Yes and press the Enter key to save changes and Reboot into Windows. 
 If you have any further questions, please email support at bluestacks dot com . 

Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+
Was this article helpful?
 
3355 out of 4245 found this helpful
Related articles
System requirements for BlueStacks 3N
How do I disable Hyper-V on Windows?
How can I configure my antivirus software to improve BlueStacks performance?
Solution for "BlueStacks feels slow"
What are BlueStacks 3 system requirements?
Comments
0 comments
Article is closed for comments.
BlueStacks Support
English (US) 
